# Jamm
Building institutions for the age of AI and a changing climate

More than twenty years ago I told a classmate that I wanted to create a new world economic system.  Little did I know then that artificial intelligence would become a real thing and that climate change would risk rendering living conditions in quite a few world regions unlivable. In the years since making this observation I never lost sight of this goal and I still sincerely believe that the current world economic system is deeply unjust. I also find it encouraging that even winners of the current order who do not share the same political views have stated publicly that the AI revolution is going to upend the world as we know it. If that is the case then the only question in this regard for a person walking the earth at this point in time is whether he or she is going to try to play an active role in creating the institutions of the future or whether he or she instead prefers to try to fit into the structures and systems that other people will inevitably create. I have always wanted to do the first and this open-source project constitutes my shot at doing so. The fundamental justification for any kind of institution is that it helps safeguard value(s). Personally, I believe that the most important types of institutions to this end are institutions of governance and the institution that we call money. In the context of this open-source project I want to make a value proposition for both. 
In doing so it is paramount that I first clarify the values that I want this open-source project to safeguard. The most important value that I want this project to safeguard is an individual’s – when I say ‘individual’ I mean every adult individual without any serious sociopathic mental impairments – ability to do with their time as far as this is possible what he or she wants to do. In order to meet this highest value certain conditions must be met from which certain derivative values follow. Two obvious conditions are, first a livable natural environment and second a peaceful state of world affairs. Our first order derivative values are thus the values of PEACE and NATURE. In my view both the governance institutions of the future as well as the monies of the future ought to prioritize these two first order derivative values. 

Everything else should follow from there and will follow from us.  
